Hey all!

I've been busy as usual recently, making things and getting into life. I've
not sent a newsletter from a while, so I won't cover everything that's
happened since the last one, but here are some highlights.

*Format of this letter for the curious: news, a recent website, and then
stuff to read, to use, and to watch.*


*New Employer: Burnt Fen Creative LLC <https://burntfen.com>*

That's right! I am now a full time employee of... myself. I'm going to be
focusing on Burnt Fen Creative, my consulting and art company, for the
foreseeable future.

*Get in touch if you want to work with me! *

This means I am no longer employed by Protocol Labs and IPFS
<http://ipfs.io/>. After a year and a half of contributing full time to one
of the most promising decentralization projects on the web, I've decided
that I want to do more elsewhere. They're still awesome, let's be clear. I
am now actively working on some different projects to improve the internet.
I'll be letting you know about those here every week from now on.

While I work on these, if you know of any website that need help with their
design and user experience, or if you know of JavaScript projects that need
some love, I am very open to consulting. Get in touch and pass the world
along!

---

*New Website: StrandedByTrump.com <http://StrandedByTrump.com>*

[image: Inline image 2]

While I was with HackerParadise <http://hackerparadise.org/> in Buenos
Aires this January, I got together with some friends one evening and made
an information website to help out people who were stranded in airports by
Trump. It has now been translated into Arabic and Somali, and while it's
impact was small, I received many appreciative comments and was told it was
useful in some cases. Victory. I'm keeping it up, although I am now only
passively updating it.


*To Read*

I published Fighting Trump By Staring At My Toilet In Confusion
<https://medium.com/@richlitt/fighting-trump-by-staring-at-my-toilet-in-confusion-58f68cd1a2e2#.x5lw0lmdp>
on
Medium recently. I talk about how little moments of curiosity are what will
get us through this.



*To Use*

Here is a small Node module: is-github-user-or-org
<https://github.com/RichardLitt/is-github-user-or-org>. Use it to find out
if someone is a user or an organization on GitHub!



*To Watch*

[image: Inline image 1]

I've started a Cooking cum Elizabethan Philosophy show. So far, there are
three episodes. I'll make new ones on the weekends; my plan is to get
through the whole book, before moving on to Kevin Bacon and Eggs. This is
clearly the most important thing I have ever done.

Watch it here...
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYqf3zgG7JNPtk2z5Hnyh4-xEhLBkRfIG>



That's all! Enjoy your weekend and take care, folks!

If you have any thoughts, just hit reply; I'll respond to every email I get
here.

Best,
Richard

Montreal, Canada.
