Hello friends,  
  
It is snowing here in Montréal. As I write this, flakes are drifting down past the window and onto the trees outside. After a few hours, there are a couple of inches of snow on everything. I’m sitting in Barcelona Cafe, in the Plateau. I come here every Saturday morning to read and relax with another friend of mine. It’s one of the highlights of my week, and a regularity I can’t have when I am on the road.   
  
This week, I finished the altMBA course I mentioned in my last newsletter. The course was enlightening. My main takeaway has been that, at the end of the day, I am more interested in writing as an activity - and in the written product, be it novels, poetry, journal entries, this newsletter, or book reviews - than anything else, and that is what I need to focus on. So, this week, I’ve been writing until noon every day. I’ve also rededicated myself to writing [my daily newsletter](http://tinyletter.com/practice). I couldn’t be happier with this change. 

To help support my writing, I set up [my Patreon](
https://www.patreon.com/richlitt) again this week. I would absolutely **love** feedback if you have any. This is for you.   

The altMBA has taken up a great deal of time, and I’m looking forward to having more space and flexibility to pursue different ventures and artistic avenues, going forward. My next project? An article for Tor.com, and my thesis. I may also be going to Iowa next week, although I’m not sure. Any suggestions, if I do?  
  
Thanks for reading. As always, I’m always just an email away.   

Kind regards and lots of Christmas cheer, 
Richard