I've been fighting my inbox for a what feels like hours, now. It feels like hours because it has been hours - I've been working on clearing them since roughly 9:00am. I could note down the names of the relevant topics in my inbox, archive them all, and get to inbox 0 immediately - but that wouldn't be the same, and I'd be worried that I had lost some. 

What I want to talk about today is the feeling I have after reading and dealing with a few emails. I feel tired. Exhausted. Often, this leads to me not thinking clearly; I waste some time here and there debating what to do, or I go on Twitter, or I go get a snack from the kitchen. Staying focused is difficult.

Lately I've been wondering if it possible that my feeling of tiredness from reading emails actually comes from my repeatedly shutting down ideas I have.

For instance, in the last four emails, I had the following ideas percolate up:
    - Submit my final thesis as a new paper to a conference in Trondheim in September;  
    - Build a strategy for applying to jobs here in Montréal, by seeing which ones were interested in an interview, and which weren’t.
    - Apply to the Knight foundation, for some as-yet-unknown-project that I want to have funded. 
    - Go onto a community online I'm a part of online more in order to get more feedback for my ideas.

All of these are exciting. And if I were to focus on any one of them, I would lose 20 minutes, an hour, a day or work. My emails are almost always like that. Part of my brain gets excited, and the other part says No, you've got to do the work first.

Maybe writing down all of these ideas is the answer, and then prioritizing them. Or labelling and boomeranging my emails into the future more. I don't know. 
