I am re-reading [The Art of Learning](https://www.amazon.ca/Art-Learning-Journey-Optimal-Performance/dp/0743277465) by [Joshua Waitzkin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joshua_Waitzkin), the chess prodigy who later became a world champion in competitive tai chi. In a chapter on keeping your concentration when the world around you is trying to split your attention, he has this small segment:

> The nature of your state of concentration will determine the first phase of your reaction [to an interruption] - if you are tense, with your fingers jammed in your ears and your whole body straining to fight off distraction, then you are in a _Hard Zone_ that demands a cooperative world for you to function. Like a dry twig, you are brittle, ready to snap under pressure. The alternative is for you to be quietly, intensely focused, apparently relaxed with a serene look on your face, but inside all the mental juices are churning. You flow with whatever comes, integrating every ripple of life into your creative moment. This _Soft Zone_ is resilient, like a flexible blade of grass that can move with and survive hurricane-force winds.  
  
This, I think, we have all experienced before. We’ve focused when there was hassle around us - at airports, in busses, at school. All students eventually learn to deal with a minimum of chatter, or we wouldn’t spend so much time in cafes. However, I don’t think that many developers actively seek out louder cafes and environments as a way of increasing their focus.   
  
> Mental resilience is arguable the most critical trait of a world-class performer, and it should be nurtured continuously.   

We all know that working in cafes is a nice break from the office. But it also may be possible that it is a better place to work than the office. Have you tried? Spend a month in the noisiest cafe you can, and it will eventually cease to bother you. You’ll find a rhythm amidst the noise.
  
Nomadic developing (or remote work, or whatever you want to call it) is particularly suited to finding distracting places to work, with a two-fold purpose - first, to introduce social life into an otherwise barren AirBnB office environment; and secondly, to nurture signal out of the noise.   
  
Me? I wrote this while blasting monk mantras through my headphones in the middle of a bright cafe, people walking behind me, two excessively loud girls with abrasive American accents talking next to me. Did I manage to focus? Yes. Do I feel comfortable with it? Yes. Is this better than my quiet office? Definitely yes - an hour ago, I was falling asleep.   
  
Seek out chaos. 
