# Nomadism and Martial Arts  
  
Yesterday, I went to a Tai Chi dojo near my house. I've been practicing Chen style Taijiquan for the past few years, on my own. I try to correct my own stances, stretch my own muscles. However, I wanted to learn more from going to a dojo, from having a sifu and a small community of artists martial who I could learn from. There is a limit to what you can teach yourself.  
  
There was an old sifu behind the counter, as I walked in out of the rain. A class was forming next to him, half a dozen young white men in pajamas doing stretches. My people.  
  
"I want to learn Tai Chi. Do you have any classes?"  
"Not in the summer. In the autumn. Come back then."  
"What style is it?"  
"We teach Yang style here. What do you want to learn?"    
  
I explained that I had paid a friend of mine to teach me some tai chi forms from his practice, in San Francisco, but had to leave after only a few months of learning. Now, I practiced on my own, in parks mainly, every few days. I also mentioned that I had done karate for ten years, when I was younger.  
  
Baffled, confused, and a bit angry, he explained his theory of "One style for life." He pointed to one of his helpers. "He's been here 18 years. You have to stay with the same style. You cannot become a master in many. You have to unlearn how you move, when you change styles, and start over. One style for life."  
  
"Why don't you keep doing Karate?"  
"I don't live in Connecticut anymore. My dojo also didn't teach meditation. The art was always explosive. There was no internal practice."  
"This is martial arts. There is an external and an internal."  
  
I pictured my dojo where I had first learned, kids from suburbia bustled in next to krav maga classes and kickboxing. It was a world away from the park on the top of Potrero Hill, my friend and I meditating in the early morning. I want an internal practice, too.  
  
"Yes. I want to learn both. Right now, I only have one."  
"No, you have nothing," he said, defiantly.  
"I practice every few days, on my own."  
"You cannot practice on your own. You need someone to teach you."  
"Yes, that's what I'm here."  
"Why can't you practice with your friend?"  
"I move frequently," I tried to explain. "Around once a year. I wanted to find a dojo where I could learn, here. My friend is in California."  
"Ah." He folded into himself, and gave up trying to explain. "It will be hard for you," he said, empathetically. "For now, we do not teach Tai Chi, and the style is different. You shouldn't come here for just a few months."  
"Are there other studios?"  
"Many. But it will be hard for you. You cannot hop around. Each sifu is different, and they will teach you differently. Some say they are masters when they are not. It is difficult."  
  
The 18-year instructor came up. "Sifu, I am going to start the class now," he announced. I heard my queue, and said thank you, put on my flip-flops at the door, put my hat back on my head, and headed back out into the rain.  
