One of the wonderful things about fiction is that little of it is actually fictitious.  
  
While reading [_The Gathering Storm_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gathering_Storm_(novel) (no, not the one about Churchill), there is a chapter of little import in which Aviendha is quizzed by the Wise Ones about a recent discussion with the clan leader, to see how she appraised the situation (let’s not go into the details). Rhuarc, the leader of the Tardaad Aiel, at one point showed consternation about something. Aviendha picked up on this, and the undercurrent.   
  
> “I suspect that Rhuarc speaks what he has heard others say, passing the information to the Wise Ones. He does not wish to shame others by revealing who has spoken of their fears." 

This is one of the marks of a good leader; passing on complaints and information in a useful way, without assigning blame. And, in this particular case, I was reminded of something I read about in one of Richard Feynman’s books. While he was on the task force dedicated to figuring out what went wrong with the _Challenger_ launch, he was approached by General Kutyna. The General, over an otherwise banal dinner, mentioned something in passing, which Feynman took to heart.

Here is the section, in Kutyna’s words ([my source](https://kottke.org/tag/Richard%20Feynman)):

> Kutyna: On STS-51C, which flew a year before, it was 53 degrees [at launch, then the coldest temperature recorded during a shuttle launch] and they completely burned through the first O-ring and charred the second one. One day [early in the investigation] Sally Ride and I were walking together. She was on my right side and was looking straight ahead. She opened up her notebook and with her left hand, still looking straight ahead, gave me a piece of paper. Didn’t say a single word. I look at the piece of paper. It’s a NASA document. It’s got two columns on it. The first column is temperature, the second column is resiliency of O-rings as a function of temperature. It shows that they get stiff when it gets cold. Sally and I were really good buddies. She figured she could trust me to give me that piece of paper and not implicate her or the people at NASA who gave it to her, because they could all get fired.

> I wondered how I could introduce this information Sally had given me. So I had Feynman at my house for dinner. I have a 1973 Opel GT, a really cute car. We went out to the garage, and I’m bragging about the car, but he could care less about cars. I had taken the carburetor out. And Feynman said, “What’s this?” And I said, “Oh, just a carburetor. I’m cleaning it.” Then I said, “Professor, these carburetors have O-rings in them. And when it gets cold, they leak. Do you suppose that has anything to do with our situation?” He did not say a word. We finished the night, and the next Tuesday, at the first public meeting, is when he did his O-ring demonstration.

> We were sitting in three rows, and there was a section of the shuttle joint, about an inch across, that showed the tang and clevis [the two parts of the joint meant to be sealed by the O-ring]. We passed this section around from person to person. It hit our row and I gave it to Feynman, expecting him to pass it on. But he put it down. He pulled out pliers and a screwdriver and pulled out the section of O-ring from this joint. He put a C-clamp on it and put it in his glass of ice water. So now I know what he’s going to do. It sat there for a while, and now the discussion had moved on from technical stuff into financial things. I saw Feynman’s arm going out to press the button on his microphone. I grabbed his arm and said, “Not now.” Pretty soon his arm started going out again, and I said, “Not now!” We got to a point where it was starting to get technical again, and I said, “Now.” He pushed the button and started the demonstration. He took the C-clamp off and showed the thing does not bounce back when it’s cold. And he said the now-famous words, “I believe that has some significance for our problem.” That night it was all over television and the next morning in the Washington Post and New York Times. The experiment was fantastic-the American public had short attention spans and they didn’t understand technology, but they could understand a simple thing like rubber getting hard.

> I never talked with Sally about it later. We both knew what had happened and why it had happened, but we never discussed it. I kept it a secret that she had given me that piece of paper until she died [in 2012].

This is a wonderful example of leadership. Instead of implicating Sally, Kutyna passed on the message to the appropriate person, adequately, and with grace.  
  
Figuring out a place for this lesson outside of teams with clearly defined command structures - Kutyna and Rhuarc are both generals, after all - is a bit more difficult, but can be done with some effort. After all, a complaint is a stance, which means that it affects real situations regardless of whether or not it is valid structurally. That means that viewing the complainer - whether it’s a coworker, your child (or mother), or yourself - isn’t as important as approaching how you can change how the issue is perceived. 