I’m exhausted.   
  
Not from lack of sleep. I went to bed at around 10:30, and I stayed asleep until around 8:00am. I woke up a few times here and there, but slept fine. And not from lack of coffee. I’ve had two cups already, today. Some almonds, too, so I should be fine for food.   
  
No, I’m exhausted because writing is exhausting. For the past three hours, I’ve been focusing exclusively on finishing a draft of an essay that was due three months ago. It’s a 3000 word essay, and I expect I’ll get paid $40, if I get paid at all. It took me two weeks worth of research, working around two to four hours a day, to be able to get to the point where I felt comfortable writing it. Innumerable days I’ve sat down and said “Today is the day”, and then failed, again, as I realized I wanted something else, or I wasn’t sure what to write, and so on.  
  
Today, I finished it. It’s not perfect. 1500 words was the estimate I gave my publisher, and I almost doubled that, and I still left out a lot. But - it’s done. I’ll edit it again tomorrow, and then send it over.   
  
I don’t have anyone really telling me what to do. I don’t have a boss, and I don’t have a chair I need to sit in from 9-5. I just have my tasks and my todo lists, and vague notions of what I want to accomplish. This means that I often work just a bit less than I should, because I’m not being pushed. I like that. It leads to a healthier life, I feel.   
  
But it means that, on days when I do work, and focus hard, and feel drained because of it, I’m surprised. I’m surprised, right now, by how tired I feel. I’ve just been typing away, flipping through some books for quotes occasionally. I forgot to even turn on my music. But that act, itself, was enough to give me a headache.   
  
It’s a good headache. The post is done.   
  
What’s next? 