Mangroves, as it turn out, are not a single species. Instead, it is a loose term for all coastal shrubs that are able to grow in saline water, and particularly in the anoxic environment of mud flats. Indeed, this habitat can be referred to using the term mangroves (or mangal), and, while there are around 110 different species considered “mangroves”, only some of these are included in the mangrove plant genus, _Rhizophora_, which are also called “true mangroves”. And, unlike the rainforest or even the moderate temperate forests of New England (where I grew up), the biological diversity of a mangrove forest is normally limited to three or four species.

Mangroves, basically, are complicated.

I spent a good deal of time, while I was in Antigua, walking through and around the mangrove forests at the end of Willoughby Bay. Besides being bitten by flies, sweating profusely, and being creeped by the odd mongoose rustling about, I was able to find a good amount of bird species. Bananaquits, everywhere. Some croaking thing, hidden in the grove on the other side of a flat. A hundred black-necked stilts, cheeping away in a small flock. A duck heading back into the aerial root system to hide. 

I didn’t take the time to wonder about what species of plants were around me. Doing some research now, I find there are at least seven species in Antigua: _Acrostichum aureum, Avicennia germinans, Avicennia schaueriana, Conocarpus erectus, Laguncularia racemosa,_ and _Rhizophora mangle_. The last was the most common and the most familiar to me - the Red Mangrove, ubiquitous and easily recognisable. But what of the others? Were they there, too? Could I have identified them if I researched a bit more?

Why am I asking myself this, now? Because I was reading Robert Jordan, again, and looked at an underline I had made to note that mangroves only grow around the coastal city of Tear. Why didn’t they grow in Illian, I wondered. In fact, what are mangroves? Thirty minutes after starting, I was plumbing the depths of Wikipedia, fascinated. 

Nothing is, in itself, interesting. We only become interested if we allow ourselves to be curious. The more you feed curiosity, the more interesting whatever you’re looking at becomes. I’m sure I could fabricate an interest in this desk I am writing on; what sort of wood does Ikea use most often, I wonder.   
  
What is hard is making something useful of your curiosity. I messaged a friend of mine, a forester, asking if there was anything I could have done to report my knowledge. I reported the flock of black-necked stilts, along with accurate counts of the other species I identified, to eBird, the largest crowd-sourced scientific site in the world. Some scientist may use that data, later. But there’s no site like that for mangroves. Why not?

Another use, besides science, is subtler - sharing. We connect to each other over what we share, what we find interesting. This is one of the facets of birdwatching that is so frustrating. You can see a bird that makes you excited, but it’s hard to share that with a non-bird watcher. It’s difficult seeing people unable to connect with your interests, because they haven’t put in the effort to see what you see as interesting. But playing the long game can make this pay off. Make them see how interested you are. See if they start learning, too. And then share that, together.

Looking back, one of the friends I made on the trip was someone who loved flowers. I remember her showing me a photo of a flower she took a picture of. I smiled, said it was pretty, and turned back to my birding book. Now, I wonder what it is, and how I could find out.

Could I become interested in flowers, too?
