## On Taking Interesting Notes in Books

Today, I spent two hours transcribing my notes from [_The Shadow Rising_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shadow_Rising), the fourth book in _The Wheel of Time_ series by Robert Jordan. The book itself is 700 pages. I ended up with a file around 250 lines long, filled with quotes and notes to myself about the book. Some of the quotes might be interesting to others. For instance:  
  
> The worst sin a general can commit, worse than blundering, worse than losing, worse than anything, is to desert the men who depend on him.

That’s what Faile says to Perrin, quoting her father, one of the five great living generals in the series. It’s a nice quote. Not entirely relevant to my life, as I don’t generally lead men into battle (or out of them), but it may inform future writing I write, or how I view team management.  
  
Other quotes aren’t that interesting, on the surface. For instance:   
  
> Bushy-tailed squirrels chittering in the trees, speckled thrushes warbling on branches imitated by black-winged mockers, bluebacked quail bursting up out of the brush in front of the travellers — all spoke to him of home.

Unless, like me, you’re interested in a list of animals one can find in Randland, this may not be the most useful quote in your life.   
  
But that’s what makes this sort of process incredibly fulfilling. Because to me, that’s very interesting. 

This read through, I’ve tried to focus on pretty much anything I’ve found amusing, and tried to find a way to make it interesting. I’ve got notes on the accents and syntaxes (syntices?) of the characters; on what sort of birds exist, and what people call them; on where we’re likely to find certain types of trees; on names and their possible etymologies; on animals and how the ecology of the world must work; on Southern American English and how Robert Jordan used it; on how to be a good general; on where I found the writing shallow or weak; on sexism and racism, and, at one point, thalassocratic assumptions; on anthropology; on economics; on security practices; on horsemanship; on flowers; on musical instruments; on ontological issues arising from the Dark One and causality; on pipes; on laughter (try saying the sentence “The axe was a wicked half-moon blade balanced by a thick spike, meant for violence” in a Boston accent); on prophesies. 

It’s all interesting to me. Choosing the quote above - the one with quail - actually took me a few minutes, because I was trying to imagine what would be the least interesting to most of you. This might have worked:  
  
> The Amyrlin was capable of sending a woman into a bear's dean with nothing but a switch if it suited her purposes.

But I think that’s interesting, because, just as later when Jordan mentions “like a ferret, down a rabbithole,” we only see some animals in similes and metaphors. We never see them from the character’s perspective or in the background. Or the man with a kilt we see in the realm of the Aelfinn and Eelfinn - the only time that we have a kilted person in the entire series. How did Mat, who had never seen a kilt presumably, know to call it a kilt? Why wasn’t it described as a skirt? Can you have names for things without the things themselves? Why?

So, that’s how this morning was spent. Two hours, and I don’t have a lot to show for it. Just a lot of time spent on Wikipedia, and a file of notes. At some point, I’ll write a review for [the Litt Review](https://burntfen.com/the-litt-review/), probably without all of the fun things I pointed out here, because I’m not sure other people care that much. 

Do you?