Today, I continued my long-overdue task of recording all of my notes from my last [_Wheel of Time_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wheel_of_Time) reread. It takes roughly two hours for me to transcribe all of my notes from a Robert Jordan book. There’s a lot to look up. I now know what a hackamore is, for instance (a bridle without a bit). And what “come a cropper” means in British English (to fall heavily). And I can point to the exact page where Rand first gets laid. Good to know.

Flipping through [_The Fires of Heaven_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fires_of_Heaven), I came across a couple of names that I thought were decidedly odd. Science fiction and fantasy get a bad rap for poor linguistics work in coming up with names. This makes sense, as besides Tolkien, most writers are not linguists, and most writers don’t do the legwork of finding out what makes languages work. George RR Martin is on record as saying he isn’t a linguist. And Robert Jordan did some work, but he had a few blind spots.

One of them was for the Old Tongue, his ancient language that bubbles up through the text. It was based on Gaelic, Russian, Arabic, Chinese, and Japanese ([source](http://www.steelypips.org/wotfaq/2_nondark/2.4_yore/2.4.05_old-tongue.html)). Unfortunately, he borrowed from some languages more heavily than others.

Here’s the example that got me a bit confused today:

> Though raids through the Niamh Passes appear to have increased.

Catch that? Niamh. [Niamh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niamh) is a mythical princess in Irish lore. It’s also an impossible word to spell and pronounce correctly if you don’t know Gaelic. You pronounce it as [ˈniːəv] - for an American, something like “neev”. It’s rare you’ll meet a Niamh outside of Scotland or Ireland (I know a couple), so it’s unlikely you’d know that the ‘m’ and ‘h’ are pronounced as a ‘v’. This happens because Gaelic has a process called [lenition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenition), where the consonants change in a predictable way, making them more sonorous. Kind of. It's complicated.

The thing is: how are we supposed to know if that is what happens in the Old Tongue? I don’t know of any other examples where there was lenited consonants in the few smatterings we got. Indeed, a lot of the old Tongue actually has ‘v’s scattered throughout: _Dovie'andi se tovya sagain_, for instance, “It’s time to toss the dice.” (Don't even mention the apostrophe.)

So why the “mh”? Why not a “v”? Probably because Niamh was lifted wholesale from Gaelic. The thing is, we don’t know. We might actually be supposed to pronounce it “knee-a-em-h”. I sure hope not. I assume Robert Jordan liked the name, and took it, without thinking about the orthographical or phonological repercussions of using a word that comes along with a lot of linguistic baggage.

He did this later in the book, too. Demandred is said to be wearing a shirt with “the high neck trimmed in Jaerecruz lace.” Is that a Spanish _cruz_? Like, the cross? Do we pronounce that “j” like an “h”? How do we pronounce the diphthong “ae”?

Kids, please don’t do this. Don’t feed the pedants.
