## Film List

_Incomplete_

10 Things I Hate About You
Jiro Dreams of Sushi Fantastic film about mastering a skill. Some things can’t be learned in a few seconds.
Solaris
The Thomas Crown Affair
Wild Combination: A Portrait of Arthur Russell
It Happened One Night This was a great and hilarious movie. Classic. 
The Wrestler Was not a good idea to watch this late at night. Ended up going to sleep very depressed. 
Iron Man
Iron Man II
The Avengers
Guardians of the Galaxy
Captain America
The Hulk
Iron Man III
Garden of Words
Avengers II
Drunken Master
The Grand Budapest Hotel
Bourne Supremacy
Bourne Identity
Bourne Ultimatum
Casino Royale
The World Is Not Enough
Groundhog Day
The World’s End
Home Alone
Home Alone II
Kung Fu Panda

## Book List
Hermann Hesse - Siddhartha
James C. Richards - Better is Better
Renaming of the Birds - David Troupes
Josh Waitzkin - The Art of Learning
Frank Herbert - Dune Messiah
Jonathan Littauer - Heirs to the World
Mr Penumbras 24 Hour Bookshop
Iron and Silk
The Way of the Superior Man
Riprap
Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter
The Soldier’s Return
Amy Tan - World on Fire
Patrick Rothfuss - The Name of the Wind
Patrick Rothfuss - The Wise Man’s Fear
JRR Tolkien - The Fellowship of the Ring
Karl Ove Knausgård - My Struggle, vol. 1
Murakami - What I Talk About When I Talk About Running
Kenji Yoshino - A Thousand Times More Fair
Bill Waterson - Something Under the Bed is Drooling
Bill Waterson - Calvin and Hobbes
Bill Waterson - Yukon Ho!
Bill Waterson - Weirdos from Another Planet
Bill Waterson - Scientific Progress Goes Boink!
JRR Tolkien - The Fall of Arthur
JRR Tolkien - The Hobbit
Douglas Adams - The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy
David Troupes - The Simple Men
Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance
Robin Hobb - Assassin’s Apprentice
Robin Hobb - Royal Assassin
Robin Hobb - Assassin’s Quest
Neil Gaimain - American Gods
Gene Wolfe - The Ziggurat
Terry Pratchett - Making Money
Gene Wolfe - A Cabin on the Coast
Raymond Fiest - Magician: Apprentice
Ken Follett - The Pillars of the Earth
Elizabeth Speare - The Sign of the Beaver
Walter Isaacson - Benjamin Franklin
Ursula le Guin - Searoad
James D. Watson - Avoid Boring People
Leo Babauta - Zen to Done
Pablo Neruda - The Sea and the Bells
Ryan North - Poor Yorick
Aquinas - On Being and Essence
David Troupes - Parsimony
William Carlos Williams - Selected Poems
WB Yeats - The Tower
Elie Wiesel - Night
Gary Synder - Riprap & Cold Mountain Poems
David Troupes - Renaming the Birds
As You Were, Punx Comics
Gary Snyder - This Present Moment
Werner Herzog - Of Walking in Ice
Amanda Palmer - The Art of Asking
Democracy, A Very Short Introduction
Ray Bradbury - Fahrenheit 451
Donald Hall - Essays After Eighty
